INTRODUCTION. xi

1. De Regibus Exterarum Gentium. II. De Regibus Ro·
manorum. III. De Excellentibus Ducibus Exterarum Gentium.
IV. De Excellentibus Ducibus Romanorum. V. De Iuris Con-
sultis Graecis. VI. De luris Censultis Romanis, VII. De
Oratoribus Graecis. VIII. De OratOribus Romanis. IX. De
PoetIs GraecIs. X. De PoetIs Latinis XI. De Historicis
GraecIs. XII. De Historicis Latinis. XIII. De Philosophis
Graecis. XIV. De Philosophis Latinis. XV. De Grammaticis
Graecis. XVI. De GrammaticIs Latinis.

In this comparison or balancing of hts countryrnen with
foreigners we should naturally look for some disparage-
ment of the latter. But everywhere in the portions of his
work that have come down to us, we are forced to recog-
nize his fairness and impartiality. Even when a foreigner
gains hIs gIory at the expense of Romans as was true of
Hannibal, Nepos shows the highest admiration for his
exploits and in no way attempts to belittle his achieve-
ments.

We find manymistakes and inaccuracies in his historical
statements‚ but in view of the great task he undertook, of
his haste to finish the work begun only late in life, and
of his being the first Roman historian to use foreign
authorities, this need not excite our surprise.

 

